So we tend to say that Crowdfunding is about raising funding but it's actually not just that it's also
a pre-selling your product.
Right.
So if your campaign is successful you already have customers.
Think about it.
It's not just D.C. or an investor giving you money giving your go letting you try it out and see if
you can grow your company.
You actually have real customers who are supporting your endeavors and these tend to be people who are
closer to the 1000 true fans that can Kelly talks about you know people who have really back to you
based on trust that you will create a great product so so that being in the Bay area a couple of years
back and I was taken on a tour of the Tesla the new Tesla factory by J.B. Strobl who is one of the co-founders.
And he said something that was really interesting about Tesla which is around 50 percent of their initial
funding actually came from customers customers who said I will put down this money even though we're
not sure what the end product might look like.
I have enough faith in your company to give you my money and allow you to acquire the tools or the people
or the factory to actually build this thing.
And many times during the lifetime of Tesla they actually had a lot of financial troubles.
You know I think Elon Musk can only pump in as much money as he had at the time.
But as you know he's vested in quite a few ventures.
And so there were times where they actually had to go to these presold customers and say hey you know
I know that we said that this car was going to cost you know 200000 or whatever it was but we actually
is actually not going to work.
We can either refund you or if you like you can actually increase your pledge and we can actually make
this happen.
And their backers really really came through and made Tesla what it is today.
So think about your campaign not just as raising money for your company but getting your true fans getting
your first customers and presenting your product.
So let's look at some examples.
Exploding kittens was a card game that was created by the makers of the oatmeal.
So the Army already has a huge following.
It's a hugely successful web comic series.
I was actually one of my favorites.
And so a little while back they decided to create a card game that was based on drawings that would
be drawn up by the artist himself.
And they managed to pre sell this product to over 200000 people and raised over eight million dollars
for a card game.
So think about it.
You know it's something that he could have put up on his website and sold to everybody.
But by creating a crowdfunding project he was able to expose it to a lot more people.
So people who weren't normally readers of his web comic he was able to get a huge amount of press which
he wouldn't have otherwise by just launching it on his site.
And also it's a great way of gathering together your community you know getting your fans to share your
product and gain more customers and gain more fans.
And another really topical example is the fidget cube.
So currently it is June 2017.
And these fidget cubes are sold absolutely everywhere.
Yesterday I went to a wine shop in London and they were selling fidget cubes and fidget spinners.
I've no idea why they're so popular.
But it all started here on Kickstarter.
They created a video where they demonstrated what this thing could be useful and it captured everybody's
imaginations.
They raised over six million dollars for a small cube allows you to fidget during class.
Get that right.
And now it's been cloned and copied by almost everybody.
It's available everywhere.
It's become a huge sensation.
And this is where it started.